---
title: "Learning constraint models from data"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-02-07-cpml23
venue: "AAAI 2023 - CPML Bridge"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
date: 2023-08-29
location: "Washington, D.C., US"
---

Constraint programming (CP) is widely used for solving
real-world problems. The basic assumption in CP is that
the user models the problem and a solver is then used to
solve it. Despite the many successful applications of CP on
combinatorial problems from various domains, there are still
challenges to be faced in order to make CP technology even
more widely used. A major bottleneck in the use of CP is
modeling. Expressing a combinatorial problem as a set of
constraints over decision variables requires substantial expertise, and this non-trivial task is often a major bottleneck
for the widespread adoption of CP.

<!--more-->

To overcome this obstacle, several techniques have
been proposed for modeling a constraint problem
(semi-)automatically, and nowadays assisting the user
in modeling is regarded as one of the important aspects of
CP research. An area of research that has started to attract
a lot of attention is that of constraint acquisition, which
is an area where CP meets Machine Learning (ML). In
constraint acquisition, the model of a constraint problem is
acquired (i.e. learned) using a set of examples of solutions,
and possibly non-solutions. This talk was an overview of constraint acquisition research, aiming at identifying challenges and future directions.

[Extended abstract](http://osullivan.ucc.ie/CPML2023/submissions/01.pdf)
[Slides](https://dimostsouros.github.io/files/constraint_acquisition_cpml23.pdf)